now Israel is home to a mixed population
which includes about 20% ethnic Arabs
many of whom identify as Palestinians
and they often face
discrimination with tensions in the
region once again flaring one group of
activists in Israel is trying to promote
solidarity across ethnic lines DW's AI
Ibrahim reports from
hia a site to
behold this room contains right now
Palestinians and Jews who actually in
the darkest most
polarizing most
difficult moment in the history of the
two peoples right now is choosing to
like actually work
together they want to send a message
they feel cannot be repeated enough we
cannot survive if we will be against
each other we cannot survive if if
someone will try to you know um Kick the
other out in this country millions of
Palestinians will remain here and
millions of Jewish people will remain
here and that's a fact this meeting at
AOS and hia is organized by standing
together a Grassroots peace movement
made up of Jewish and Palestinian
citizens of
Israel activists tell me such
togetherness has been rare since the
October 7th Hamas
attacks and that often demonstrations of
solidarity in either direction are met
with rejection we have friends we have
neighbors we have peers we have
colleagues who are Jewish who got deeply
impacted by this and and we we were
devastated um but by that
act uh but even that was not something
that was fully accepted by a lot of the
Jewish public oh you're hurting for us
now but so you can't say you can't
identify as Palestinian and also in Gaza
there are children um which is something
very controversial right now to say in
Israel we do suffer from um calls for
violence from being called being a
traitor from inment against us Jewish
people that are working towards peace
that are working to build solidarity um
among Jews and Palestinians the fact
that we are even unable to fully
experience and grief our people
um
is is like the it's like the the epitome
of our psychosis and our like experience
as Palestinians and Israel like I'm
literally unable to fully grief my
people while also like like you're like
on a mission to convince people you're
human
like
um
people here believe deepening divisions
in Israeli Society make it all the more
important to meet and to show empathy
with one
another so they put that empathy quite
literally center
stage in defiance of local right-wing
groups which tried to get the event
cancelled it's happening under tight
security it's more than just talk though
volunteers visit places where Muslims
and Jews work together like this
hospital near haa they handed out thank
you cards to staff written in Arabic and
Hebrew Tamara assadi is a Palestinian
Israeli teacher who works at a
predominantly Jewish
school it is important for me to be a
role model for my students for my
country and everyone around me I choose
to be here because I'm convinced that we
have to improve our relationship we have
to protect it we have to look at each
other as human
beings the visit is happening one month
after the October 7th terror
attack and uh it's very difficult
day for all of us but it's so important
to Mark to remark the fact that we are
together in the staff here and many
other places we are doing very very
naturally together togetherness
naturally
togetherness they've also set up a
hotline offering legal support for
Palestinian Israelis who've lost jobs or
suffered discrimination since October
7th standing together members have even
taken the name literally and formed
human chains around businesses to
protect them from from hate attacks what
about Jewish people like yourself back
at the assembly I ask Alan Lee green if
he feels their movement speaks for the
majority in Israeli Society no but do
all the society the majority of society
have the interest of the direction we
want to go I think the answer is yes so
that means our job uh the mission the
responsibility we took Upon Our
shoulders is to organize this majority
into uh a political majority and it's
going to be a very long way
they know there's more work to do after
the speeches attendees break up into
small
groups they brainstorm more practical
ways they might spread their message and
to convince more of their fellow
Israelis to see each other the way they
do let's speak to a Ibrahim who followed
that report uh joining me now from
Jerusalem Aya at the end of your report
there we saw Jewish and Palestinian
Israelis brainstorming together to find
to find ways to stand together and
spread their message what did they come
up
with well what they've established is
what they call the Jewish uh Arab
solidarity guards so for example there
was they told me about a homeless place
in hia you know a long standing
establishment has been there for about
40 years it's Palestinian owned and on
the door of that establishment there was
a verse there's a verse in the Quran had
always been there uh Palestinians and
Jews visit that uh restaurant uh often
after the October 7th attacks uh some
right-wing groups claimed that that
verse of the Quran was somehow um you
know sympathizing with Hamas or inciting
attacks against Jewish people and that
establishment came under uh attack and
so what the group did is put together a
a human chain around that restaurant to
protect the owner and what when they do
these uh these human chain uh acts these
these this guard which is an unarmed
guard they're just standing there to
protect uh a uh you know establishments
that have long been part of their mixed
communities they always do this together
these groups are always a mix between
Jewish Israeli activists and Arab or
Palestinian activists depending on how
they identify themselves now we saw in
your report that this group's meeting
took place under tight security can you
tell us more about what kind of
challenges uh Palestinian Israelis are
facing in the current
climate right I mean let's just take a
step back and you know who are these
Palestinian Israelis that we're talking
about this is the largest ethnic
minority in uh Israel these are full
Israeli citizens they can vote they can
run for office uh they're just like
their Jewish uh uh counterparts in many
ways except they do sometimes face
discrimination within uh uh Society so
they are Israeli citizens but at the
same time they are part of the larger
Palestinian Nation if you will so they
may have relatives or friends with
Palestinians in the diaspora but they
also may have friends or family in Gaza
or in the West Bank and so when you have
a situation like this like the horrible
attack of October 7th and the war that
then uh ensued in Gaza they're in
between these two identities if you will
they're part of Israeli Society so they
have friends that are Jewish they have
friends that have been atted by the
terror attacks and they also have
friends people that they can relate to
in Palestinian uh territories and so
they're often looked at at least that's
what the activists that I've spoken to
tell me with a sort of suspicion that
they don't have their loyalties in uh
with Israel but they do as far as I
could tell and as far as what the people
that I've spoken to uh tell me and so
often times if they express solidarity
with civilians in Gaza not Hamas
civilians in Gaza they are accused of
supporting a terror organization which
they say of course uh they do not and
there have been some cases in Israeli
Society unfortunately since the October
7th attack where students are subject to
disciplinary hearings and uh people are
you know fired from their jobs or having
difficulty at work for sympathizing with
the Palestinian uh side of their
identity publicly on social media and
that's created a lot of fear among
Israel's Palestinian um Arab uh
Community I mean we had quite a bit of
difficulty getting Palestinian Israeli
voices on camera but luckily we did have
a few as you saw that report and
something that they told me activists
both Jewish and Palestinian is that they
wish that the media would look more
about what life is actually like between
these two communities within Israel that
there's a specific very um you know
one-sided idea in the media about what's
going on in this country and of course
there's war there's suffering but
there's also a coexistence between these
two uh uh groups that has been going on
for generation and that they they felt
that that was also worth uh highlighting
and that's part that's at least what we
tried to show in that report there are a
lot of difficulties of course a lot of
challenges discrimination it's a
conflict Zone but the reality on the
ground every day is a little bit more
gray than that I would say well thank
you very much for your reporting that's
DW's a Ibrahim in
Jerusalem